they say home is where the heart is and
this seems to be the case as interesting
home renovation has never been greater
than right now and if your new year's
resolution was to finally get around to
that last little bit of DIY that's been
nagging you for ages than today's guests
will hopefully offer you some
inspiration joining me today is Zoe
Lewis from Richard Burbage so I thanks
so much for coming in now so when it
comes to like DIY we often think of like
a weekend project being nothing more
than perhaps I don't know a lick of
paint on the walls but we wouldn't
perhaps think that with change our
staircase would with no I think you're
right it is often overlooked yeah and
the main reasons for that is often
people think spell more expensive then
actually it is people are pleasantly
surprised about the price and also
people think it's a lot more complex
than it actually really is and simply
it's about awareness people are not
aware of all the off-the-shelf options
which which are available yeah sure I
think people probably have an idea that
it's structurally part your home and
it's something that honor you can't
touch that it's like the walls or the
roof you leave that alone yeah you're
right it's it's just about changing the
guarding on the side of your stairs it's
not about ripping out the whole
staircase right I what sort of you know
how can it transform you and what kind
of effect can you have well I think the
first thing is we often think it's the
first thing you see when you walk in
through the home so why wouldn't you
change it and I think also these days
rooms are getting smaller yeah and it
can give an illusion of space especially
if you use something like glass so can
make a roommate feel a lot lot bigger
and give that illusion of space and
light and how can people because I mean
we all kind of like get inspiration from
magazines and books and the media or
things like that for you know homewares
but and if we're planning a project what
help can we get from planning our
project well there's lots of things
available first of all for example if
you went on our website and clicked on
stair planner yeah you can actually
choose the style you want based on
whether you want something traditional
or contemporary the price point that you
want to pay right and whether you're
going to fit it yourself or ask somebody
else to do it so there are lots of
different things
help people and fitting it yourself is
this achievable yes it is I mean first
of all on that system you can plug in a
few little details how many steps you've
got and it will generate a full parts
list for you and then all these systems
that you can see around us have actually
been designed with the DI wire in mind
let's take out all the difficult things
that's really good you've got lots of
from styles lots of resins here that's
what behind you there that looks just
really bespoke to me but it's you know
it's off the shelf you can do that
yourself yes course you can and you can
change this call this system quite a lot
to get another different look so they
are metal balusters which just simply
slot into holes in a handrail and base
rail and there's lots of different
styles of the balusters available and
you can change the posts as well the
holes pre-drilled review wanna drill it
in this no no they are they are drilled
already so to make it super easy you
just slot your balusters in put some
glue in and there you go and then you're
good to go and so that's kind of you
know we talked about so like a weekend
DIY project if you're gonna do the whole
room you could you know you should
really be looking at stairs as an
integral part of your design for ya in
the room yes it is it yourself of course
you can again you need to be tackles a
few projects before but it can be a DIY
job and if you're not feeling confident
of course you can you can find somebody
to fit them for you but it can be quite
a straightforward thing to do far easier
than what you'd expect brilliant so I
thanks ever so much coming in it was
short and it's sweet but we are indeed
out of time thanks to you for watching
as well of course don't forget if you
want to find out more have a look at the
stair planner and the light go to the
website just get yourself logged on to
all the w's innovate hyphen and hyphen
renovate calm thanks for watching we'll
see you next time